README.md, before:

# 🛠️ TooliRent API

TooliRent is a REST-based API for managing tool rentals in a makerspace environment.  
It is built with **ASP.NET Core**, **Entity Framework Core**, and follows modern software architecture and design patterns.  
Even though this is a school project, it has been developed with the goal of resembling a real-world application as closely as possible, given my current knowledge level.

---

## 📖 Table of Contents
- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture](#-architecture)
- [Technical Requirements](#-technical-requirements)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [API Endpoints](#-api-endpoints)
- [Swagger / OpenAPI](#-swagger--openapi)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Author](#-author)

---

## 🚀 Features

### Authentication & Authorization
- ✅ Register as a **Member**
- ✅ Login and receive a JWT token
- ✅ Refresh token flow
- ⏳ Logout *(Coming Soon)*
- Roles:
  - **Member**
  - **Admin**

### Tools
- ✅ List all available tools
- ✅ Filter tools by category, status, and availability
- ⏳ View detailed information about specific tools *(Coming Soon)*

### Bookings
- ✅ Create a booking (one or multiple tools for a period)
- ✅ View personal bookings and their status
- ✅ Cancel bookings *(rule: cannot cancel if already started or expired)*

### Loans (Pickup / Return)
- ✅ Mark tool as picked up
- ✅ Mark tool as returned
- ✅ Handle overdue returns

### Admin Functions
- ⏳ CRUD operations for tools *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ CRUD operations for tool categories *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ Manage users (activate/deactivate) *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ Rental and usage statistics *(Coming Soon)*

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

The project is based on **N-tier architecture** with clear separation of concerns:

- **Presentation Layer** → API Controllers  
- **Application Layer** → Services  
- **Domain Layer** → Entities & Interfaces  
- **Infrastructure Layer** → Repositories & DbContext  

**Design patterns used:**
- **Service Pattern** for business logic
- **Repository Pattern** for data access

---

## 📦 Technical Requirements

- **DTO & Mapping**
  - AutoMapper for Entity <-> DTO mapping
  - Separation between domain entities and external contracts

- **Validation**
  - FluentValidation for incoming DTOs
  - Domain rules validated separately

- **Authentication**
  - JWT Bearer authentication
  - Role-based authorization (**Member** & **Admin**)

- **Database**
  - Relational database (SQL Server)
  - Code-first with EF Core migrations
  - Seed data for development and testing

---

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- SQL Server
- IDE of choice

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/JonssonF/TooliRent.git
   cd TooliRent

Commit message:

Enhance README with feature-first approach details
Added explanation of the feature-first approach for project structure.

README.md, after:

# 🛠️ TooliRent API

TooliRent is a REST-based API for managing tool rentals in a makerspace environment.  
It is built with **ASP.NET Core**, **Entity Framework Core**, and follows modern software architecture and design patterns.  
Even though this is a school project, it has been developed with the goal of resembling a real-world application as closely as possible, given my current knowledge level.
To achieve this, the project uses a **feature-first approach** (sometimes called vertical slice architecture), where functionality is grouped by features (e.g. Bookings, Loans, Tools) instead of only being separated by technical layers. This helps keep related code together and makes the project easier to maintain and scale.
---

## 📖 Table of Contents
- [Features](#-features)
- [Architecture](#-architecture)
- [Technical Requirements](#-technical-requirements)
- [Getting Started](#-getting-started)
- [API Endpoints](#-api-endpoints)
- [Swagger / OpenAPI](#-swagger--openapi)
- [Roadmap](#-roadmap)
- [Author](#-author)

---

## 🚀 Features

### Authentication & Authorization
- ✅ Register as a **Member**
- ✅ Login and receive a JWT token
- ✅ Refresh token flow
- ⏳ Logout *(Coming Soon)*
- Roles:
  - **Member**
  - **Admin**

### Tools
- ✅ List all available tools
- ✅ Filter tools by category, status, and availability
- ⏳ View detailed information about specific tools *(Coming Soon)*

### Bookings
- ✅ Create a booking (one or multiple tools for a period)
- ✅ View personal bookings and their status
- ✅ Cancel bookings *(rule: cannot cancel if already started or expired)*

### Loans (Pickup / Return)
- ✅ Mark tool as picked up
- ✅ Mark tool as returned
- ✅ Handle overdue returns

### Admin Functions
- ⏳ CRUD operations for tools *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ CRUD operations for tool categories *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ Manage users (activate/deactivate) *(Coming Soon)*
- ⏳ Rental and usage statistics *(Coming Soon)*

---

## 🏗️ Architecture

The project is based on **N-tier architecture** with clear separation of concerns:

- **Presentation Layer** → API Controllers  
- **Application Layer** → Services  
- **Domain Layer** → Entities & Interfaces  
- **Infrastructure Layer** → Repositories & DbContext  

**Design patterns used:**
- **Service Pattern** for business logic
- **Repository Pattern** for data access

---

## 📦 Technical Requirements

- **DTO & Mapping**
  - AutoMapper for Entity <-> DTO mapping
  - Separation between domain entities and external contracts

- **Validation**
  - FluentValidation for incoming DTOs
  - Domain rules validated separately

- **Authentication**
  - JWT Bearer authentication
  - Role-based authorization (**Member** & **Admin**)

- **Database**
  - Relational database (SQL Server)
  - Code-first with EF Core migrations
  - Seed data for development and testing

---

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- [.NET 8 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
- SQL Server
- IDE of choice

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/JonssonF/TooliRent.git
   cd TooliRent
